---
title: "On recovering distributed IP information from inductive source time domain electromagnetic data"
date: 2016-07-05
author: mgoebel, rknight, skang
journal: Geophysics
thumbnail: ip_2016.jpg
layout: publication
tags: em, ip, inductive source, simulation, inversion
alm: true
oa: false
doi: 10.1093/gji/ggw256
citation: "Kang, S., and D. W. Oldenburg, 2016, On recovering distributed IP information from inductive source time domain electromagnetic data: Geophysical Journal International, 207, 174–196. doi: 10.1093/gji/ggw256"
---



# Abstract

We develop a procedure to invert time domain induced polarization (IP) data for inductive sources. Our approach is based upon the inversion methodology in conventional electrical IP (EIP), which uses a sensitivity function that is independent of time. However, significant modifications are required for inductive source IP (ISIP) because electric fields in the ground do not achieve a steady state. The time-history for these fields needs to be evaluated and then used to define approximate IP currents. The resultant data, either a magnetic field or its derivative, are evaluated through the Biot-Savart law. This forms the desired linear relationship between data and pseudo-chargeability. Our inversion procedure has three steps: (1) Obtain a 3-D background conductivity model. We advocate, where possible, that this be obtained by inverting early-time data that do not suffer significantly from IP effects. (2) Decouple IP responses embedded in the observations by forward modelling the TEM data due to a background conductivity and subtracting these from the observations. (3) Use the linearized sensitivity function to invert data at each time channel and recover pseudo-chargeability. Post-interpretation of the recovered pseudo-chargeabilities at multiple times allows recovery of intrinsic Cole-Cole parameters such as time constant and chargeability. The procedure is applicable to all inductive source survey geometries but we focus upon airborne time domain EM (ATEM) data with a coincident-loop configuration because of the distinctive negative IP signal that is observed over a chargeable body. Several assumptions are adopted to generate our linearized modelling but we systematically test the capability and accuracy ofthe linearization for ISIP responses arising from different conductivity structures. On test examples we show: (1) our decoupling procedure enhances the ability to extract information about existence and location of chargeable targets directly from the data maps; (2) the horizontal location of a target body can be well recovered through inversion; (3) the overall geometry ofa target body might be recovered but for ATEM data a depth weighting is required in the inversion; (4) we can recover estimates of intrinsic τ and η that may be useful for distinguishing between two chargeable targets.